---
layout: post
title:  "Executive Summary"
subtitle: "Business Overview"
menu: Summary
categories: investors deck
---
* Video-on-Demand (VoD) explosive growth
* 1000+ VoD platforms hungry for long-form content
* 250,000 feature films unexploited on VoD
* Creatrs can't access most VoD outlets
* Wildly different formats for film assets
* VoD Super-Aggregator
* Automated, scalable, global, multi-language
* Crushes VoD supply chain costs 100x
* Disruptive, eliminates up-front costs
* Live with Hulu, Amazon, iTunes, Netflix

<!--more-->

Kinonation is a start-up solving a big problem in the content supply chain for video-on-demand (VoD) platforms such as Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, iTunes, Google Play and hundreds of non-US VoD outlets. It's a cloud-based Distribution-as-a-Service (DaaS) for content creators.

Every year 25,000 feature length films are completed globally, but less than 2,000 are distributed. The rest are under-exploited, unable to get theatrical or TV distribution. There’s a pool of 250,000+ under-exploited feature films, representing an investment of at least $50 billion. These films can now be monetized via VoD in multiple formats, countries & languages.

BUT: Prepping & delivering feature film assets for VoD is highly complex, wholly unstandardized, inefficient and expensive. Kinonation solves that problem.

Kinonation is a supplier to Netflix, iTunes, Amazon, Hulu and the 1000+ digital and cable VoD outlets throughout the world. Our enterprise software allows these massive digital assets to be uploaded, stored, transcoded, packaged and distributed at scale to VoD outlets & channels worldwide.

Revenue is generated from VoD outlets and Distribution-as-a-Service (DaaS) fees from studios, distributors, and catalog owners.

The founding team had executive roles at iFilm, Lexis-Nexis, Reuters, and have created content for 100+ Hollywood and independent movies.

KinoNation is live & operational, ingesting award-winning feature films (100+) and distributing to VoD platforms such as iTunes, Amazon, Hulu, Google Play, Netflix, Viewster. Generating revenue since Q2 2013. We’ve proved the business model, now need to scale 100x, to a catalog of 10,000 films and 1,000 VoD channels & outlets. Angel funding of $250k from founder. Raising A round of $1.5 - $2.0 million.
