---
layout: post
title:  "Problem & Solution"
subtitle: "Eliminate cost, gatekeepers, pain"
menu: Solution
categories: investors deck
---
* Content Creators want access to global VoD
* USA difficult & expensive to distribute
* Rest of World even harder
* 250,000 unexploited films worth $50b
* Very difficult to market films
* One-Stop platform for VoD distribution
* Access 1000+ global outlets
* Eliminate gatekeepers & upfront costs
* Slash distribution cost by 100x
* Tools to match films to global audience

<!--more-->

Talented creators of film & video struggle to find distribution for their content, in an analog system dominated by established players, relationships and “film markets” such as Cannes, American Film Market, Mipcom, etc.  The existing path to VoD distribution requires filmmakers to pay for expensive custom encodes in multiple versions, and entails high levels of cost, friction and difficulty. There’s a pool of 250,000 dormant or unexploited feature films. Plus, thousands of major studio films are under-exploited. Globally 25,000+ feature films are made every year -- 95% don't get "conventional" distribution deals, but all want VoD distribution.

Kinonation provides content creators an effortless route to digital distribution that is usually closed to them. For VoD outlets, Kinonation provides a guarantee of content quality, integrity and legality. It’s a true win-win, a One-Stop Platform that simplifies & automates online movie distribution. This automation crushes distribution cost from $500-1000 per outlet to just a few dollars.

