---
layout: post
title:  "Executive Summary"
subtitle: "Business Overview"
menu: Summary
categories: investors deck
---
* super-aggregator for Video-on-Demand (VoD
* Distribution-as-a-Service
* scalable cloud-based pipeline for content owners to distribute & monetize films
* crunch distribution cost from $1000s per film to pennies
* unfair technology advantages
* site operational (beta) with full ingest → delivery cycle, generating revenue
* content owner can choose fee model
* need capital to scale 100x to catalog of 10,000 films and 200+ channels & outlets
* founders have deep expertise in distributing, marketing & monetizing video

<!--more-->

Kinonation is a start-up solving a big problem in the content supply chain for video-on-demand (VoD) platforms such as Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, iTunes, Google Play and hundreds of non-US VoD outlets. Our cloud-based Distribution-as-a-Service (DaaS) delivers a 100x cost reduction in the highly complex and wholly non-standardized process of ingesting, transcoding, authoring & delivering movie assets for VoD.

* Beta clients Hulu, Amazon, iTunes
* Gives content creators distribution access to global VoD network
* Crushes VoD supply chain costs 100x
* CTO Klaus Badelt scored Pirates of the Caribbean, Gladiator, Beijing Olympics
* CEO Roger Jackson was head of content at iFilm.com, Lexis-Nexis Hong Kong
* Revenue $2k Q2/13 → $20k Q3/13 → $20m Q4/18
* Based in Santa Monica, CA

Every year 25,000 feature length films are completed globally, but less than 2,000 are distributed. The rest languish or are under-exploited, unable to get theatrical, TV or DVD distribution. There’s now a pool of 250,000+ under-exploited feature film assets, representing an investment of at least $50 billion (assuming $200k average production cost per film). Each year $5 billion of movie product is made but not even offered for sale to the public, trapped in a high cost, inefficient, legacy distribution system. These films can now be monetized via VoD in multiple formats, countries & languages.

BUT: Prepping & delivering feature film assets for VoD is highly complex, wholly unstandardized, inefficient and expensive. Kinonation solves that problem.

Kinonation does not compete with Netflix, iTunes, Amazon, Hulu and the 1000+ digital and cable VoD outlets throughout the world. We supply movies to them at scale.

KinoNation is a cloud-based Distribution-as-a-Service (DaaS) pipeline for content owners to distribute and monetize under-exploited feature films. Our enterprise software allows these massive digital assets to be uploaded, stored, transcoded, packaged and distributed at scale to VoD outlets & channels worldwide, in multiple languages. 

Revenue is generated from VoD outlets and Distribution-as-a-Service (DaaS) fees from studios, distributors, and catalog owners.

The founding team have deep expertise in creating, distributing, marketing and monetizing digital assets, with executive roles at iFilm, Lexis-Nexis, Reuters, and have created content for 100+ Hollywood and independent movies.

KinoNation is live & operational, ingesting award-winning feature films (100+) and distributing to VoD platforms such as iTunes, Amazon, Hulu, Google Play, Netflix, Viewster. Generating revenue since Q2 2013. We’ve proved the business model, now need to scale 100x, to a catalog of 10,000 films and 1,000 VoD channels & outlets. Angel funding of $250k from founder. Raising A round of $1.5 - $2.0 million.
